---
status:
  - closed
Participants:
  - Georg Kordowich
Date: 2024-09-07
---
### Open points:
- [x] IEEE Test systems? Where can I find them?
- [x] Update on Python framework -> see notes on [[DIFFPSSI initial meet w Georg]]
- [x] Questions towards simulation methods

### Questions:
- Is a FSM modeled differently than an OLTC alone? 
  -> Characteristics are the same, only the "reaction time" is different; stages / discrete steps can be varied identical. Or is it better to model it like a "2-step" OLTC with different time constants, ratios, and tapping boundaries?
	- tbd with **Ilya**; comment from Georg: seems logically identical
- How is normally a voltage control implemented? 
  -> With a global control approach it could be easily possible, but just a local device cannot distinguish between the input and the control value
  -> Depending on power flow scenario, the voltage control has to act differently
  -> Is there a standard, or already a "smart" control scheme known?
	  - tbd **Ilya**
- Test systems: literature Ilya good start, IEEE 9-bus system as well; what more? How many test systems are useful / mandatory (2 to 3 enough?)?
	- 2 enough for tranformer; for control maybe more; 9-bus good start; tbd with **Ilya**
- What about 3-winding transformers?
  -> Found literature that it can be easily modeled with an extra fourth bus... 
  -> But are they usually tap-changing?
	  - tbd with **Ilya**; rather nor
- Differences in star-star or star-triangle transformers?
  -> voltage is considered, due to overall ratio of transformer instead of single contributions
  -> turning ratio as well
  -> neutral point treatment? (as well a third bus with compensation to neutral? -> like auxiliary transformer)
	  - No differences, just ratio and phase shift

### Looked at last two weeks:
1. Literature research:
	1. General simulation methods for PSS
	2. Some paper and literature for control engineering; Bifurcations? (are they used as these u-s-nose curves?; how are they used in power system control?)
2. DIFFPSSI framework: Did some simulations; tried to understand simulation procedure 
3. *PowerFactory?*
	1. I have no idea...
4. Some representational circuits for transformers
	1. $\pi$-representative or T-representative needed? -> normally one can switch and change between them...

Follow-up defined for [[2024-10-23 Bi-Weekly 2]].